Question 1. What is database? Explaine with an example on why should we need a database? 

Answer => A database is a systmatic collection of data that supports electronic storage and manipulation of data.

1/ Database make data management easy.
2/ Its provide a means to store , retrive , update and analyze data efficient data.



Question 2. Write a short note on file based storage system . Explaine the major challanges of a file based storage system? 

Answer => A file based storage system is a type of data storage where data is stored in files organized in a hierarchical file and folder structure .
  A file is stored as a whole without breaking down the data into blocks such as in blocks storage.

Major Challanges =>

1. Scalability issue : As data grows file based system can become inefficient and difficult to manage , leading  to increased costs and complexity.

2. Data Redundancy : Duplicate data can exist across multiple files leading to storage inefficiencies and protential inconsistencies.


Question 3. What is  DBMS? What was the need for DBMS? 

Answer => A Database management system is a software system that manages and controlls the creation maintainence and use of database.

Need of DBMS:

1. Data organize and management : A DBMS allows data to be stored in a structured manner. which helps in easier retruevel and analysis.

2. Data sequrity and privacy: A DBMS provides a robust sequrity framework that ensure the confidentialy intigrity and availability of data.

3. Concurrent data access : A DBMS provides a concurrent access mechanism that allows multiple users to access the some data sumultaneousty.


Question 4. Explaine 5 challanges of file based storage system which was tackled by DBMS?

Answer : 1. Data organization and management: DBMS providea relational and non-relational model that  allows data to be stored in table or collections which can be easily access and manipulate using SQL or other query languages.

2. Data sequrity and privacy : DBMS provides authentication and feature that control who can access or modify the data. 

3. Data analysis and reporting : File based system do not have advanced querring capabilities that enable users to perform complex data analysis and generatex reports.

4. Data intigrity and consistency: It also provide tracsaction that ensure that data changes are atomic consistent isolated and durable.(ACID)

5. Concurrent data access : DBMS provides locking mechanisms that ensure multiple user can access the same data without cousing conflict.


Question 5. List out the different type of classification in  DBMS and Explaine? 

Answer : 1. Based on data model : The data model is the way data is organized and manipulate in a DBMS. There are different type of data models. Such as relational , hierarchical , network , object-oriented amd object-relational. Each type has its own advantage and disadvantage and  it is suitable for different application.

2. Based on the number of user: The number of user refers to how many users can access and use the DBMS concurrently.

It is two type:-
a. Single-user : This DBMS supports only one user at a time and it is usully used for personal or small application.
b. multi-user : It is supports multi-user and its usully used for large-scale. A multi-user DBMS also require more sequrity.

Question 6. What is significance of date modeling and explain the type of data modeling ? 

Answer : Data modeling is the process of analyzing and defining all the different data type your bussiness collects and produces as well as the relationship between those bits of data.

1. Conceptual data modeling : A Conceptual data modeling define the overall structure of your bussiness and data used for organizing bussiness concepts your conceptual data model is define by your bussiness stakeholders and data engineers or arctitects.
2. Logical data modeling : A Logical data modeling builds upon the conceptual data model with specific attributes of data within each entity and the relationships between those attributes.
3. Physical data modeling : A Physical data model is your specific implementation of the logic data model created by database administrators and developers.

Question 7. Explaine 3 schema architecture along with its advantages?

Answer : Advantages of three-schema architecture:

1. Data independence: All three layers are distinct from each other, making it easier to maintain and change each layer individually.
2. Scalability: Each schema can scale independently, which can enhance the performance of the database and manage more traffic at the same time.
3. Customization: Each user can access the same database with a different customized view of data.